Replacing Time Server text (Standard Issue #169) (#124)
uptane/deployment-considerations: repositories.md

1. Verify that the signatures on the downloaded time are valid.
2. Verify that the list of tokens in the downloaded time includes the token that the ECU sent in its version report.
3. Verify that the time downloaded is greater than the previous time.

If all three steps are completed without error, the ECU SHOULD overwrite its current attested time with the time it has just downloaded. 

If any check fails, the ECU SHOULD NOT overwrite its current attested time, but SHOULD jump to the last step ([Create and send version report](https://uptane.github.io/uptane-standard/uptane-standard.html#create_version_report))to report the error.

#### Changes to check Root metadata

In order to prevent a new time source from accidentally causing a rollback warning, the clock will be reset as folllows: check the time source key after updating to the most recent Root metadata file. If the key is listed in the Root metadata has been rotated, reset the clock used to set the expiration of metadata to a minimal value (e.g., zero, or any time that is guaranteed to not be in the future based on other evidence).  It will be updated in the next cycle.

#### Changes to partial verification Secondaries

> As partial verification Secondaries only check the Targets metadata from the Director repository, the time source keys on these ECUs will be checked when verifying the Targets metadata. To do this, check the key after verifying the most recent Targets metadata file. If the time source key is listed in the Targets metadata and has been rotated, reset the clock used to determine the expiration of metadata to a minimal value as described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As partial verification Secondaries only check the Targets metadata from the Director repository, the time source keys on these ECUs will be checked when verifying the Targets metadata. To do this, check the key after verifying the most recent Targets metadata file. If the external time source key is listed in the Targets metadata and has been rotated, reset the clock used to determine the expiration of metadata to a minimal value as described above.
```

Without access to a secure source of time, ECUs may be prevented from receiving the most recent updates. If the ECU's time is set too far ahead, it will determine that the current valid metadata is expired and thus be unable to perform an update. If the ECU's time is set too far behind, an attacker can freeze or replay old metadata to the ECU. (ECUs in Uptane will not accept an earlier time than what has been seen before and signed with the same key.)

If a Primary ECU does not have a secure clock, then that Primary ECU SHALL use some other secure external means to acquire accurate time. If a Secondary ECU does not have a secure clock, then the ECU SHALL use the time messages from its Primary ECU to acquire accurate time. The
following subsection describes how time servers can be used in an Uptane implementation.

> ### External ources of time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### External sources of time
```

> ### External ources of time

Author: ```suggestion
### External sources of time
```

> The IETF Network Time Protocol v4 [NTPv4, RFC 5905](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc5905) with IETF Network Time Security for the Network Time Protocol [NTS for NTP, RFC 8915](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8915) SHOULD be used by an ECU to acquire accurate time. If IETF NTPv4 (or a higher version) is used, then that ECU SHALL conform to IETF Network Time Protocol Best Current Practices [BCP 223 / RFC 8633]https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8633/). If IETF NTPv4 (or higher version) is used, then that ECU SHALL discard any received NTP mode 6 and mode 7 packets to prevent a DDOS attack caused by an old (1989) NTP implementation bug described in [http://blog.cloudflare.com/the-ddos-that-knocked-spamhaus-offline-and-ho]() and [https://us-cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/TA14-013A]().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IETF Network Time Protocol v4 [NTPv4, RFC 5905](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc5905) with IETF Network Time Security for the Network Time Protocol [NTS for NTP, RFC 8915](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8915) SHOULD be used by an ECU to acquire accurate time. If IETF NTPv4 (or a higher version) is used, then that ECU SHALL conform to IETF Network Time Protocol Best Current Practices [BCP 223 / RFC 8633](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8633/). If IETF NTPv4 (or higher version) is used, then that ECU SHALL discard any received NTP mode 6 and mode 7 packets to prevent a DDOS attack caused by an old (1989) NTP implementation bug described [here](http://blog.cloudflare.com/the-ddos-that-knocked-spamhaus-offline-and-ho) and [here](https://us-cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/TA14-013A).
```

The work-in-progress [IETF Roughtime protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-ntp-roughtime/) and the [IETF Roughtime Ecosystem](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-ntp-roughtime-ecosystem/) MAY be used by an ECU to acquire sufficiently accurate time to verify certificates (i.e., expiration) and signatures (i.e., freshness). Note that these are a revision and enhancement of the original [Google Roughtime](https://roughtime.googlesource.com/roughtime). See also the [Cloudflare implementation](https://github.com/cloudflare/roughtime).

> The US Global Positioning System (GPS), originally Navstar GPS, SHOULD NOT be used as a secure time source by any Uptane ECU, because spoofing attacks against the unsecured, civilian GPS signals are common, as described in [https://www.euractiv.com/section/defence-and-security/news/russia-responsible-for-massive-satellite-system-spoofing-study-finds/]() and [https://rin.org.uk/blogpost/1706945/332376/What-is-spoofing-and-how-to-ensure-GPS-security]().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The US Global Positioning System (GPS), originally Navstar GPS, SHOULD NOT be used as a secure time source by any Uptane ECU, because spoofing attacks against the unsecured, civilian GPS signals are common, as described [here](https://www.euractiv.com/section/defence-and-security/news/russia-responsible-for-massive-satellite-system-spoofing-study-finds/) and [here](https://rin.org.uk/blogpost/1706945/332376/What-is-spoofing-and-how-to-ensure-GPS-security).
```

Reviewer: This is odd: we take pains to point out that GPS has security problems, but so does NTP. Why don't we point that out also?

.
#### Changes to the Director repository

If an external time source is in use, a representation of its public key is CONDITIONALLY REQUIRED in Director repository Root metadata.

If an external time source is implemented AND partial verification Secondaries are used, the following metadata is CONDITIONALLY REQUIRED in the Director repository's Targets metadata:

> * A representation of the public key(s) for the time server, similar to the representation of public keys in Root metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A representation of the public key(s) for the external time source, similar to the representation of public keys in Root metadata.
```

Listing the public key of the external time source in Director Targets metadata is necessary to allow partial verification Secondaries to perform key rotation.

#### Changes to a Primary

> If an external time source is implemented, the Primary SHOULD use the following procedure to verify the time. This procedure occurs after the vehicle version manifest is sent and will fulfill the [Download and check current time](https://uptane.github.io/papers/uptane-standard.1.1.0.html#check_time_primary) step of the Uptane Standard.

Author: I'm removing the procedure specified here as it appears to be relevant only to the Uptane Time Server
```suggestion
If an external time source is implemented, the Primary SHOULD follow its stipulated  procedure for verifying the time. This procedure occurs after the vehicle version manifest is sent and will fulfill the [Download and check current time](https://uptane.github.io/papers/uptane-standard.1.1.0.html#check_time_primary) step of the Uptane Standard.
```

> 1. Gather the tokens from each Secondary ECU's version report.

Author: ```suggestion
remove bullet points

Reviewer: Is this a typo?

Author: I'm going to fix it a different way.

> 1. Gather the tokens from each Secondary ECU's version report.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> 2. Send the list of tokens to the external time source to fetch the current time. 

Author: ```suggestion

> 3. If the response of the external time source meets the criteria below, update the Primary ECU's clock and retain the time source response for distribution to Secondary ECUs. If it fails to meet this criteria, discard the response and continue the procedure without an updated time.  

Author: ```suggestion
If the response of the external time source meets verification criteria, update the Primary ECU's clock and retain the time source response for distribution to Secondary ECUs. If it fails to meet this criteria, discard the response and continue the procedure without an updated time.  
```

#### ECU version report

> The ECU version report from each Secondary will contain a token to be sent to the external time source in whatever manner the implementer chooses.  For example, the payload of the ECU version report sent from the Primary to the Director MAY contain the tokens sent to the Time Server. In this case, if any token is removed or changed, the signature will not match.  To detect a replay attack, each token SHOULD be unique per ECU. As we expect that these updates will be relatively infrequent (e.g., due to a limited number of write cycles), there will be a sufficient number of tokens to make this possible.

Author: Should this whole paragraph be taken out? If so how shall this be re-written?

Author: ```suggestion
The ECU version report from each Secondary may contain a token to be sent to the external time source in whatever manner the implementer chooses.

#### Changes to all ECUs

After the vehicle has been assembled, ECUs MAY receive an attestation of the current time as downloaded from the external time source.

> As the first step to verifying metadata, described in the Standard for both the [Primary](https://uptane.github.io/papers/uptane-standard.1.1.0.html#check_time_primary) and [Secondaries](https://uptane.github.io/papers/uptane-standard.1.1.0.html#verify_time), the ECU SHOULD load and verify the most recent time from the external time source using the following procedure:

Author: ```suggestion
As the first step to verifying metadata, described in the Standard for both the [Primary](https://uptane.github.io/papers/uptane-standard.1.1.0.html#check_time_primary) and [Secondaries](https://uptane.github.io/papers/uptane-standard.1.1.0.html#verify_time), the ECU SHOULD load and verify the most recent time from the designated time source by following its designated procedure. This will likely include verifying that the signatures on the downloaded time are valid
```

> 1. Verify that the signatures on the downloaded time are valid.

Author: Remove the bullet points

> 2. Verify that the list of tokens in the downloaded time includes the token that the ECU sent in its version report.

Author: remove bullet point 2. The process may not have a token

> 2. Verify that the list of tokens in the downloaded time includes the token that the ECU sent in its version report.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Verify that the list of tokens in the downloaded time includes the token that the ECU sent in its version report.
```
